SGNMT.sphinx/faq.rst, before:


Frequently asked questions
===========================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

.. note:: 

      If you don't find an answer here, check out the `issue tracker on Github <http://github.com/ucam-smt/sgnmt/issues>`_.


ImportError: No module named pywrapfst
-------------------------------------------------

SGNMT could not find the path to OpenFST, or you use a wrong OpenFST version (>=1.5.2). Make sure that
OpenFST is in your ``PYTHONPATH`` and ``LD_LIBRARY_PATH`` as explained on the :ref:`setup-label` page. 


'Dimension mismatch' warnings with neural models
-------------------------------------------------

This warning often indicates that the NMT model configuration does not match the training configuration of the
loaded NMT model, e.g. because the model has been trained with a different vocabulary size. Double-check the NMT
configuration parameters, especially ``--src_vocab_size``, ``--trg_vocab_size``, ``--enc_nhids``, ``--enc_embed``,
``--dec_nhids``, and ``--dec_embed``.


No such file or directory: 'test_en'
---------------------------------------------

Per default, SGNMT tries to read the source sentences to translate from a file called 'test_en'. You should
specify the path to the source sentences with ``--src_test``, or use the input methods 'stdin' or 'shell'
for interactive usage.

Theano error: UnusedInputError
-------------------------------------------------------

This is blocks related and has been discussed `here <https://github.com/mila-udem/blocks-examples/issues/58>`_. The solution is
to add ``on_unused_input='ignore'`` to your ``THEANO_FLAGS``::

  $ export THEANO_FLAGS="on_unused_input='ignore'"


KeyError when using NPLM
-----------------------------

If you are using nplm 0.3 there might be a bug in the Python module that prevents the nplm predictor to read model files.
Try to replace *nplm.py* in the *python/* directory of your NPLM installation with `this file <http:///ucam-smt.io/sgnmt/html/_static/nplm.py>`_.

Beam decoder with beam=12 does not create 12-best lists
---------------------------------------------------------

The beam decoder stops when the best scoring hypothesis ends with the end-of-sentence symbol. Therefore, n-best lists 
do not contain hypotheses longer than the best hypothesis. If you want to create full n-best lists, use
``--early_stopping false``. Thereby, the decoding does not stop until all active hypotheses end with the end-of-sentence symbol.


tropicalsparsetuple-arc.so: cannot open shared object file
-----------------------------------------------------------

You are using the *fst* output format to create translation lattices with sparse tuple arcs, but your OpenFST does not support
the arc type tropicalsparsetuple. Check out the `ucam-smt tutorial <http://ucam-smt.github.io/tutorial/build.html>`_ for more
information.

Commit message:

- Sync docs with changes in SGNMT code

SGNMT.sphinx/faq.rst, after:


Frequently asked questions
===========================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

.. note:: 

      If you don't find an answer here, check out the `issue tracker on Github <http://github.com/ucam-smt/sgnmt/issues>`_.


ImportError: No module named pywrapfst
-------------------------------------------------

SGNMT could not find the path to OpenFST, or you use a wrong OpenFST version (>=1.5.4). Make sure that
OpenFST is in your ``PYTHONPATH`` and ``LD_LIBRARY_PATH`` as explained on the :ref:`setup-label` page. 


'Dimension mismatch' warnings with neural models
-------------------------------------------------

This warning often indicates that the NMT model configuration does not match the training configuration of the
loaded NMT model, e.g. because the model has been trained with a different vocabulary size. Double-check the NMT
configuration parameters, especially ``--src_vocab_size``, ``--trg_vocab_size``, ``--enc_nhids``, ``--enc_embed``,
``--dec_nhids``, and ``--dec_embed``.


No such file or directory: 'test_en'
---------------------------------------------

Per default, SGNMT tries to read the source sentences to translate from a file called 'test_en'. You should
specify the path to the source sentences with ``--src_test``, or use the input methods 'stdin' or 'shell'
for interactive usage.

Theano error: UnusedInputError
-------------------------------------------------------

This is blocks related and has been discussed `here <https://github.com/mila-udem/blocks-examples/issues/58>`_. The solution is
to add ``on_unused_input='ignore'`` to your ``THEANO_FLAGS``::

  $ export THEANO_FLAGS="on_unused_input='ignore'"


KeyError when using NPLM
-----------------------------

If you are using nplm 0.3 there might be a bug in the Python module that prevents the nplm predictor to read model files.
Try to replace *nplm.py* in the *python/* directory of your NPLM installation with `this file <http:///ucam-smt.io/sgnmt/html/_static/nplm.py>`_.

Segmentation fault using SRILM
-------------------------------

The `swig-srilm <https://github.com/desilinguist/swig-srilm>`_ package used in SGNMT often does not produce very helpful error messages.
Usually, segmentation faults with the srilm predictor are due to a LM file which is not in the expected format. Double-check that you are
using well-formed ARPA files in plain text format (not gzipped!) with word IDs.

Beam decoder with beam=12 does not create 12-best lists
---------------------------------------------------------

The beam decoder stops when the best scoring hypothesis ends with the end-of-sentence symbol. Therefore, n-best lists 
do not contain hypotheses longer than the best hypothesis. If you want to create full n-best lists, use
``--early_stopping false``. Thereby, the decoding does not stop until all active hypotheses end with the end-of-sentence symbol.


tropicalsparsetuple-arc.so: cannot open shared object file
-----------------------------------------------------------

You are using the *fst* output format to create translation lattices with sparse tuple arcs, but your OpenFST does not support
the arc type tropicalsparsetuple. Check out the `ucam-smt tutorial <http://ucam-smt.github.io/tutorial/build.html>`_ for more
information.
