SGNMT.sphinx/publications.rst, before:


Publications
======================

If you use SGNMT in your work, please cite the following paper:

 Felix Stahlberg, Eva Hasler, Danielle Saunders, and Bill Byrne.
 SGNMT - A Flexible NMT Decoding Platform for Quick Prototyping of New Models and Search Strategies.
 In *Proceedings of the 2017 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP 17 Demo Session)*, September 2017. Copenhagen, Denmark.
 `arXiv/1707.06885 <https://arxiv.org/abs/1707.06885>`_

Additionally, SGNMT has been used in the following publications: 

* Felix Stahlberg and Bill Byrne. 
  The CUED's Grammatical Error Correction Systems for BEA-2019.
  In *Proceedings of the 14th workshop on innovative use of NLP for building educational applications (ACL 2019 workshop)*, August 2019. Florence, Italy.
  `arXiv/1907.00168 <https://arxiv.org/abs/1907.00168>`_
* Zheng Yuan, Felix Stahlberg, Marek Rei, Bill Byrne, Helen Yannakoudakis.
  Neural and FST-based approaches to grammatical error correction.
  In *Proceedings of the 14th workshop on innovative use of NLP for building educational applications (ACL 2019 workshop)*, August 2019. Florence, Italy.
  `Anthology W19-4424 <https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/W19-4424>`_
* Danielle Saunders, Felix Stahlberg, Bill Byrne. 
  UCAM Biomedical translation at WMT19: Transfer learning multi-domain ensembles.
  In *Proceedings of the 4th conference on machine translation (WMT 19)*, August 2019. Florence, Italy.
  `arXiv/1906.05786 <https://arxiv.org/abs/1906.05786>`_
* Felix Stahlberg, Danielle Saunders, Adria de Gispert, Bill Byrne. 
  CUED@WMT19:EWC&LMs.
  In *Proceedings of the 4th conference on machine translation (WMT 19)*, August 2019. Florence, Italy.
  `arXiv/1906.05447 <https://arxiv.org/abs/1906.05447>`_
* Danielle Saunders, Felix Stahlberg, Adria de Gispert, Bill Byrne. 
  Domain adaptive inference for neural machine translation.
  In *Proceedings of the 57th annual meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL 19)*, August 2019. Florence, Italy.
  `arXiv/1906.00408 <https://arxiv.org/abs/1906.00408>`_
* Felix Stahlberg, Christopher Bryant, Bill Byrne.
  Neural grammatical error correction with finite state transducers
  In *Proceedings of the 2019 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics*, June 2019. Minneapolis, USA.
  `arXiv/1903.10625 <http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.10625>`_
* Felix Stahlberg, Danielle Saunders, Bill Byrne.
  An operation sequence model for explainable neural machine translation.
  In *Proceedings of the EMNLP 2018 BlackboxNLP workshop*, November 2018. Brussels, Belgium.
  `arXiv/1808.09688 <http://arxiv.org/abs/1808.09688>`_
* Felix Stahlberg, Adria de Gispert, Bill Byrne. 
  The University of Cambridge's machine translation systems for WMT18.
  In *Proceedings of the 3rd conference on machine translation (WMT 18)*, November 2018. Brussels, Belgium.
  `arXiv/1808.09465 <http://arxiv.org/abs/1808.09465>`_
* Danielle Saunders, Felix Stahlberg, Adria de Gispert, Bill Byrne.
  Multi-representation ensembles and delayed SGD updates improve syntax-based NMT.
  In *Proceedings of the 56th annual meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL 18)*, July 2018. Melbourne, Australia.
  `arXiv/1805.00456 <https://arxiv.org/abs/1805.00456>`_
* Gregory Kell.
  Overcoming catastrophic forgetting in neural machine translation.
  *MPhil* dissertation, University of Cambridge, 2018.
* Zhiwei Wang.
  Simultaneous neural machine translation.
  4th year project, University of Cambridge, 2018.
* Felix Stahlberg, Danielle Saunders, Gonzalo Iglesias, Bill Byrne.
  Why not be versatile? Applications of the SGNMT decoder for machine translation.
  In *Proceedings of the 13th biennial conference by the Association for Machine Translation in the Americas (AMTA 2018)*, March 2018. Boston, USA.
  `arXiv/1803.07204 <https://arxiv.org/abs/1803.07204>`_
* Felix Stahlberg and Bill Byrne.
  Unfolding and shrinking neural machine translation ensembles.
  In *Proceedings of the 2017 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP 17)*, September 2017. Copenhagen, Denmark.
  `arXiv/1704.03279 <https://arxiv.org/abs/1704.03279>`_
* Eva Hasler, Felix Stahlberg, Marcus Tomalin, Adrià de Gispert, Bill Byrne.
  A Comparison of Neural Models for Word Ordering
  In *Proceedings of the 10th International Conference on Natural Language Generation (INLG 2017)*, September 2017. Santiago de Compostela, Spain.
  `arXiv/1708.01809 <https://arxiv.org/abs/1708.01809>`_
* Felix Stahlberg, Adrià de Gispert, Eva Hasler, Bill Byrne.
  Neural machine translation by minimising the Bayes-risk with respect to syntactic translation lattices.
  In *Proceedings of the 15th annual meeting of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics (EACL 17)*, April 2017. Valencia, Spain.
  `arXiv/1612.03791 <http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.03791>`_
* Eva Hasler, Adrià de Gispert, Felix Stahlberg, Aurelien Waite, Bill Byrne.
  Source sentence simplification for statistical machine translation.
  In *Computer Speech & Language*
  `ScienceDirect <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0885230816301711>`_
* Marcin Tomczak. 
  Bachbot.
  *MPhil* dissertation, University of Cambridge, 2016.
* Jiameng Gao.
  Variable length word encodings for neural translation models.
  *MPhil* dissertation, University of Cambridge, 2016.
* Felix Stahlberg, Eva Hasler, Bill Byrne. 
  The edit distance transducer in action: the University of Cambridge English-German system at WMT16.
  In *Proceedings of the 1st conference on machine translation (WMT 16)*, August 2016. Berlin, Germany.
  `arXiv/1606.04963 <http://arxiv.org/abs/1606.04963>`_
* Felix Stahlberg, Eva Hasler, Aurelien Waite, Bill Byrne. 
  Syntactically guided neural machine translation. 
  In *Proceedings of the 54th annual meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL 16)*, August 2016. Berlin, Germany.
  `arXiv/1605.04569 <http://arxiv.org/abs/1605.04569>`_

Commit message:

- add cat tongue paper to SGNMT documentation

SGNMT.sphinx/publications.rst, after:


Publications
======================

If you use SGNMT in your work, please cite the following paper:

 Felix Stahlberg, Eva Hasler, Danielle Saunders, and Bill Byrne.
 SGNMT - A Flexible NMT Decoding Platform for Quick Prototyping of New Models and Search Strategies.
 In *Proceedings of the 2017 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP 17 Demo Session)*, September 2017. Copenhagen, Denmark.
 `arXiv/1707.06885 <https://arxiv.org/abs/1707.06885>`_

Additionally, SGNMT has been used in the following publications: 

* Felix Stahlberg and Bill Byrne. 
  On NMT Search Errors and Model Errors: Cat Got Your Tongue?
  In *Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP 19)*, November 2019. Hong Kong.
  `arXiv/1908.10090 <http://arxiv.org/abs/1908.10090>`_
* Felix Stahlberg and Bill Byrne. 
  The CUED's Grammatical Error Correction Systems for BEA-2019.
  In *Proceedings of the 14th workshop on innovative use of NLP for building educational applications (ACL 2019 workshop)*, August 2019. Florence, Italy.
  `arXiv/1907.00168 <https://arxiv.org/abs/1907.00168>`_
* Zheng Yuan, Felix Stahlberg, Marek Rei, Bill Byrne, Helen Yannakoudakis.
  Neural and FST-based approaches to grammatical error correction.
  In *Proceedings of the 14th workshop on innovative use of NLP for building educational applications (ACL 2019 workshop)*, August 2019. Florence, Italy.
  `Anthology W19-4424 <https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/W19-4424>`_
* Danielle Saunders, Felix Stahlberg, Bill Byrne. 
  UCAM Biomedical translation at WMT19: Transfer learning multi-domain ensembles.
  In *Proceedings of the 4th conference on machine translation (WMT 19)*, August 2019. Florence, Italy.
  `arXiv/1906.05786 <https://arxiv.org/abs/1906.05786>`_
* Felix Stahlberg, Danielle Saunders, Adria de Gispert, Bill Byrne. 
  CUED@WMT19:EWC&LMs.
  In *Proceedings of the 4th conference on machine translation (WMT 19)*, August 2019. Florence, Italy.
  `arXiv/1906.05447 <https://arxiv.org/abs/1906.05447>`_
* Danielle Saunders, Felix Stahlberg, Adria de Gispert, Bill Byrne. 
  Domain adaptive inference for neural machine translation.
  In *Proceedings of the 57th annual meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL 19)*, August 2019. Florence, Italy.
  `arXiv/1906.00408 <https://arxiv.org/abs/1906.00408>`_
* Felix Stahlberg, Christopher Bryant, Bill Byrne.
  Neural grammatical error correction with finite state transducers
  In *Proceedings of the 2019 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics*, June 2019. Minneapolis, USA.
  `arXiv/1903.10625 <http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.10625>`_
* Felix Stahlberg, Danielle Saunders, Bill Byrne.
  An operation sequence model for explainable neural machine translation.
  In *Proceedings of the EMNLP 2018 BlackboxNLP workshop*, November 2018. Brussels, Belgium.
  `arXiv/1808.09688 <http://arxiv.org/abs/1808.09688>`_
* Felix Stahlberg, Adria de Gispert, Bill Byrne. 
  The University of Cambridge's machine translation systems for WMT18.
  In *Proceedings of the 3rd conference on machine translation (WMT 18)*, November 2018. Brussels, Belgium.
  `arXiv/1808.09465 <http://arxiv.org/abs/1808.09465>`_
* Danielle Saunders, Felix Stahlberg, Adria de Gispert, Bill Byrne.
  Multi-representation ensembles and delayed SGD updates improve syntax-based NMT.
  In *Proceedings of the 56th annual meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL 18)*, July 2018. Melbourne, Australia.
  `arXiv/1805.00456 <https://arxiv.org/abs/1805.00456>`_
* Gregory Kell.
  Overcoming catastrophic forgetting in neural machine translation.
  *MPhil* dissertation, University of Cambridge, 2018.
* Zhiwei Wang.
  Simultaneous neural machine translation.
  4th year project, University of Cambridge, 2018.
* Felix Stahlberg, Danielle Saunders, Gonzalo Iglesias, Bill Byrne.
  Why not be versatile? Applications of the SGNMT decoder for machine translation.
  In *Proceedings of the 13th biennial conference by the Association for Machine Translation in the Americas (AMTA 2018)*, March 2018. Boston, USA.
  `arXiv/1803.07204 <https://arxiv.org/abs/1803.07204>`_
* Felix Stahlberg and Bill Byrne.
  Unfolding and shrinking neural machine translation ensembles.
  In *Proceedings of the 2017 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP 17)*, September 2017. Copenhagen, Denmark.
  `arXiv/1704.03279 <https://arxiv.org/abs/1704.03279>`_
* Eva Hasler, Felix Stahlberg, Marcus Tomalin, Adrià de Gispert, Bill Byrne.
  A Comparison of Neural Models for Word Ordering
  In *Proceedings of the 10th International Conference on Natural Language Generation (INLG 2017)*, September 2017. Santiago de Compostela, Spain.
  `arXiv/1708.01809 <https://arxiv.org/abs/1708.01809>`_
* Felix Stahlberg, Adrià de Gispert, Eva Hasler, Bill Byrne.
  Neural machine translation by minimising the Bayes-risk with respect to syntactic translation lattices.
  In *Proceedings of the 15th annual meeting of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics (EACL 17)*, April 2017. Valencia, Spain.
  `arXiv/1612.03791 <http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.03791>`_
* Eva Hasler, Adrià de Gispert, Felix Stahlberg, Aurelien Waite, Bill Byrne.
  Source sentence simplification for statistical machine translation.
  In *Computer Speech & Language*
  `ScienceDirect <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0885230816301711>`_
* Marcin Tomczak. 
  Bachbot.
  *MPhil* dissertation, University of Cambridge, 2016.
* Jiameng Gao.
  Variable length word encodings for neural translation models.
  *MPhil* dissertation, University of Cambridge, 2016.
* Felix Stahlberg, Eva Hasler, Bill Byrne. 
  The edit distance transducer in action: the University of Cambridge English-German system at WMT16.
  In *Proceedings of the 1st conference on machine translation (WMT 16)*, August 2016. Berlin, Germany.
  `arXiv/1606.04963 <http://arxiv.org/abs/1606.04963>`_
* Felix Stahlberg, Eva Hasler, Aurelien Waite, Bill Byrne. 
  Syntactically guided neural machine translation. 
  In *Proceedings of the 54th annual meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL 16)*, August 2016. Berlin, Germany.
  `arXiv/1605.04569 <http://arxiv.org/abs/1605.04569>`_
